.\" Man page for pscp.  See "man 7 man" and "man man-pages" for formatting info.
.TH pscp 1 "January 24, 2012"

.SH NAME
pscp \(em parallel file upload program


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pscp
.RB [ \-vAr ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR hosts_file ]
.RB [ \-H
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]]
.RB [ \-l
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR par ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR outdir ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR errdir ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR options ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR args ]
.RB [ \-X
.IR arg ]
.I local
.I remote


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pscp
is a program for copying files in parallel to a number of hosts using the
.B scp
program.  It provides features such as passing a password to scp, saving output
to files, and timing out.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-h " host_file"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-hosts " host_file"
Read hosts from the given
.IR host_file .
Lines in the host file are of the form
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
and can include blank lines and comments (lines beginning with "#").
If multiple host files are given (the
.B \-h
option is used more than once), then pscp behaves as though these files
were concatenated together.
If a host is specified multiple times, then pscp will connect the
given number of times.

.TP
.B \-H
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-host
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-H
.RI \(dq[ user @] host [: port ]
[
.RI [ user @] host [: port
] ... ]\(dq
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-host
.RI \(dq[ user @] host [: port ]
[
.RI [ user @] host [: port
] ... ]\(dq
.PD 0
.IP
Add the given host strings to the list of hosts.  This option may be given
multiple times, and may be used in conjunction with the
.B \-h
option.

.TP
.BI \-l " user"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-user " user"
Use the given username as the default for any host entries that don't
specifically specify a user.

.TP
.BI \-p " parallelism"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-par " parallelism"
Use the given number as the maximum number of concurrent connections.

.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " timeout"
Make connections time out after the given number of seconds.  With a value
of 0, pscp will not timeout any connections.

.TP
.BI \-o " outdir"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-outdir " outdir"
Save standard output to files in the given directory.  Filenames are of the
form
.RI [ user @] host [: port ][. num ]
where the user and port are only included for hosts that explicitly
specify them.  The number is a counter that is incremented each time for hosts
that are specified more than once.

.TP
.BI \-e " errdir"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-errdir " errdir"
Save standard error to files in the given directory.  Filenames are of the
same form as with the
.B \-o
option.

.TP
.BI \-x " args"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-extra-args " args"
Passes extra SSH command-line arguments (see the
.BR ssh (1)
man page for more information about SSH arguments).
This option may be specified multiple times.
The arguments are processed to split on whitespace, protect text within
quotes, and escape with backslashes.
To pass arguments without such processing, use the
.B \-X
option instead.

.TP
.BI \-X " arg"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-extra-arg " arg"
Passes a single SSH command-line argument (see the
.BR ssh (1)
man page for more information about SSH arguments).  Unlike the
.B \-x
option, no processing is performed on the argument, including word splitting.
To pass multiple command-line arguments, use the option once for each
argument.

.TP
.BI \-O " options"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-options " options"
SSH options in the format used in the SSH configuration file (see the
.BR ssh_config (5)
man page for more information).  This option may be specified multiple
times.

.TP
.B \-A
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-askpass
Prompt for a password and pass it to ssh.  The password may be used for
either to unlock a key or for password authentication.
The password is transferred in a fairly secure manner (e.g., it will not show
up in argument lists).  However, be aware that a root user on your system
could potentially intercept the password.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Include error messages from ssh with the
.B \-i
and
.B \e
options.

.TP
.B \-r
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-recursive
Recursively copy directories.


.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.\" .PP
.\" Connect to host1 and host2, and print "hello, world" from each:
.\" .RS
.\" pssh -i -H "host1 host2" echo "hello, world"
.\" .RE


.SH TIPS

.\" .PP
.\" If you have a set of hosts that you connect to frequently with specific
.\" options, it may be helpful to create an alias such as:
.\" .RS
.\" alias pssh_servers="pssh -h /path/to/server_list.txt -l root -A"
.\" .RE

.PP
The ssh_config file can include an arbitrary number of Host sections.  Each
host entry specifies ssh options which apply only to the given host.  Host
definitions can even behave like aliases if the HostName option is included.
This ssh feature, in combination with pssh host files, provides a tremendous
amount of flexibility.


.SH EXIT STATUS

.PP
The exit status codes from pscp are as follows:

.TP
.B 0
Success

.TP
.B 1
Miscellaneous error

.TP
.B 2
Syntax or usage error

.TP
.B 3
At least one process was killed by a signal or timed out.

.TP
.B 4
All processes completed, but at least one scp process reported an error
(exit status other than 0).


.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Written by
Brent N. Chun <bnc@theether.org> and
Andrew McNabb <amcnabb@mcnabbs.org>.

http://code.google.com/p/parallel-ssh/


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh_config(5),
.BR pssh (1),
.BR prsync (1),
.BR pslurp (1),
.BR pnuke (1),
